hey guys how's it going dev here uh the canadian elections are in two weeks hard to believe isn't
it we're almost there my personal prediction just uh just off the bat is that trudo is probably
going to get a minority government i hate to say it but i think it's true not because of his
strengths he's been a pretty terrible prime minister all things considered however his his
opponents aren't really that strong and to be frank that's why he won his first election it
wasn't because of his own strengths it was because of his father's good name and the fact that all of
his opponents were were quite weak but the elections in two weeks and last night was the
first and only english debate believe it or not there was an informal debate back in september but
trudo actually opted not to go he he refused the other leaders debated without him and in fact
i think to uh to showcase the point they left his podium empty on stage but we've got an
english-speaking debate that happened last night and we've got a french debate uh later in the week
that i'm not going to watch because screw that honestly french is kind of a joke language here
in canada they force a lot of us to learn it in schools and then we instantly purge those memories
from our brain the minute we graduate for the most part and i don't mean to poison the well here or
anything but having seen the debate it's it's my opinion that trudo didn't do very well and i would
like to showcase why so everyone get your uh your 4chan poll 2019 canadian election general debate
bingo cards ready and we're gonna see how many of these things we can tick off that's that's
some incredible artwork by the way i always love these things many canadians have felt the
implications of a divided world more so than 2015 from u.s protectionism to brexit to our growing
tensions with china as prime minister how would you effectively defend both the interests and
values of canadians on the world stage we know we live in a very challenging time right now from
protectionism to fear-based politics to the transformative technological change people are
facing we need to make sure that canadians are equipped and tooled to be able to succeed in an
uncertain world and that's why over the past four years we've invested directly in canadians help
people be optimistic about their future have the tools to succeed and the tools to see their kids
succeed we know the environment is a massive and pressing challenge and building a stronger economy
for the future means protecting the environment for the future as well these are the things we're
going to be talking about tonight this is something that you'll notice about trudeau
throughout this entire night he doesn't really bring up much in the way of concrete numbers
a few times he does and other candidates do a little bit more than he does but he is just a
walking talking point he's basically playing from the same handbook that he did five years ago
and that's not going to work this time in my opinion because he's now had five years of
government at least five years ago it was him outlining his his general values and then us
voting on them and saying okay maybe you know those values will translate into some kind of
concrete action down the road but he hasn't done most of the things he said he would do
during that first campaign and in this debate you'll notice he offers no excuse as to why those
things haven't been done and now with five years of government under your belt justin you can't
rely solely on values anymore because nothing's come of them but as you watch this you'll see
that's how almost all of his answers are framed a lot of talking points and a lot of dodging
questions about specifics we are the people's party and we put canada first the other leaders
on this stage are globalists they spend your money to buy this as u.n security council and also they
are giving your money to other countries to fight climate change in asia and build roads in africa
the u.n is a dysfunctional organization and we must be able to fight for our country actually
we are the only party that will have foreign policies that is based on our security and
prosperity for our country holy shit so i guess this is why this guy has kind of become a meme
in canada and elsewhere you you open the debate your first words by saying that everyone's a
globalist and the u.n is a corrupt organization i mean he's he's not wrong but holy shit
this guy is for those of you who don't know this is maxime bernier he's trying to position himself
as like the outsider conservative candidate he was a member of the conservatives for quite a long
time and he left to start his own party called the people's party which is in my opinion not not
a very good name it doesn't really ring conservatism at all it rings communism but it's not a
communist party um he left to start his own party because he viewed the conservatives as too corrupt
to be able to be fixed and he wanted to take his uh his connections and his clout elsewhere and
since then he's been trying to to to position himself as the the alt conservative i don't know
how it is in the rest of the world but in canada conservatism has been definitely branded with um
the stain of religious fundamentalism and he's trying to go with like the secular conservative
option kind of like donald trump in a sense but he's not as uh as bombastic as trump is almost
almost like the libertarian option in a sense where he's he's for small government he's for
devolution of powers he's anti-globalist he's kind of positioning his party to be kind of like the
ukip of of canada if that makes any sense and his remarks in social media are are meme worthy
they're bombastic they go viral regularly and and frankly it's definitely one of those emperor has
no close situations because as you'll see in this debate he doesn't say too much that's unreasonable
and yet he's branded as like a white supremacist it's kind of unreal to watch to me leadership is
about who you're fighting for the choices you make and whether you're doing what's right for people
and whether it comes to international affairs standing up to trump making sure we fight to build
a better trade agreements that actually put canadians first for me the question really comes
down to do you have the courage to stand up to the powerful and wealthy interests the corporations
that are having too much influence over canada and i've seen so far in ottawa whether it's liberal
conservative governments they haven't had the courage to stand up and fight for people we're
different we're in it for you i don't work for the rich and powerful i work for people this is
the ndp candidate uh jagmeet singh the ndp is they were born out of the canadian communist party back
in i think the 60s or the 70s they they reformed themselves and became the new democrats they're
basically canada's equivalent of i guess the lib dems they're hard left very hard left definitely
socialist definitely full of social justice warriors in a sense and although jagmeet is
kind of down to earth in a lot of ways um there are also just ways where he he operates an
ideology he doesn't explain much regarding uh how he's going to do the things that he wants to do
he talks about standing up to trump which is quite honestly he just shoved that in there because it
was a virtue signal he talks a lot in this debate about um you know expanding various social
programs but he never actually talks about how he's going to pay for it he talks about taxing
the one percent he never actually talks about what happens when the one percent leave canada
because canada's not the united states you know a lot of the richest people in the united states
and a lot of the biggest corporations still might not leave the u.s even if they got more heavily
taxed because they're a massive market canada isn't that there is very little that someone
like jagmeet can do to prevent capital flight from happening to canada so i just don't think
he understands how delicately he has to tiptoe around the situation he thinks he can just
bulldoze in with state force it's not going to work like that of course i will always stand up
for canada and canadian's interests and promote free trade and defend our interests all around the
world but justin trudeau only pretends to stand up for canada you know he's very good at pretending
things he can't even remember how many times he put blackface on because the fact of the matter is
he's always wearing a mask he puts on a reconciliation mask and then fires the attorney
general the first one of indigenous background he puts on a feminist mask and then fires two strong
female MPs for not going along with his corruption he puts on a middle-class mask and then raises
taxes on middle-class canadians mr trudeau you are a phony and you are a fraud and you do not deserve
to govern this country holy okay so this is okay andrew shear leader of the tories he's always been
kind of a milquetoast kind of dude and i think this is him trying to break out of that shell
with you know only half success this is supposed to be okay shear i don't know if you know what
this this these 45 seconds are for you to outline your platform not just a shit on trudeau i mean i
enjoyed it but i think you might i think you might have squandered your opportunity also that's the
only mention of the blackface it never comes up again judo never responds to it they just kind of
whitewash that shit which i guess is appropriate because that's what you have to do to get that
makeup off hey justin but i want to start by acknowledging that we're on the traditional
territory of the algonquin peoples into them the which canada's role in the world is an
amiable one we have a historic reputation for being an honest broker for being a country that
stands up for multilateralism we have a commitment as a nation to meet the sustainable development
goals which means our future as a world is built on ending poverty and encouraging the education
of women and girls that's a cornerstone on top of that we really need to renegotiate the world trade
organization and make it an organization that promotes climate action we need a world trade
and climate organization we need to support the rule of law and human rights around the world
because we are world leaders there's the greens elizabeth may um she's very popular and she almost
always wins her seat whenever she runs for it but nobody else in her her party has ever won a seat i
think aside from like one or two other times um so the green party despite constantly getting
platformed in these debates is is not much of a political force in canada and her party basically
competes with with space with the ndp because they have very similar policies um in fact they
could probably just merge and be one party frankly it's just that she just wants to run for herself i
guess i don't know i don't quite know i think it's because the greens are more environmentally
focused than the ndp even though the ndp is quite environmentally focused also she is the prime
virtue signaller of the bunch every single time she talks about a location in canada she talks
about the the native people that used to inhabit that location before europeans came over i get the
point i understand but it's not relevant to the debate i think everybody and thank you for having
me on behalf of the block having leadership or showing leadership sometimes mean not making
mistakes and arresting the chief financial financial officer of we might have been a big
mistake for which farmers growing soya or those who import or be might have paid the price when
you're facing a powerful foe like china you don't try to show biceps if you have only tiny biceps
and this is something that has to be learned and we would support somebody with real leadership
not making mistakes hit the fucking gym trudeau okay this guy is the um leader of the block
the block are the quebec separatists for some reason they always run in the national elections
even though they only run candidates in quebec and they only have interest in quebec politics
and frankly their long-term goal is to have quebec leave canada i have no clue why this guy is here
i don't know why their party keeps getting invited back if they don't want to be part of the national
discussion and frankly i don't really care much about this guy's opinions because he always talks
about quebec rather than canada he always talks about what he'll do for people living in quebec
not for canadians i don't know man mr bernier you like to tweet so let me read some of your
tweets back to you uh you called diversity in canada a cult and extreme multiculturalism
you've used the words ghetto and tribes to describe newcomers whom you say bring distrust
and potential violence on greta tunberg the 16 year old climate change activist you called her
quote clearly mentally unstable are these the words of someone with the character and integrity
to lead all canadians and represent us on the world stage oh yeah okay okay
the question you must tell the truth to canadians if you want to be the leader of this country
and what i'm saying about extreme multiculturalism it is not the way to build this country yes this
country is a diverse country and we must be proud of that but we don't need the legislation like the
multiculturalism act to tell us who we are we are a diverse country and we are proud of that what i'm
saying because it's in line with the immigration i'm saying that we must have fewer immigrants in
this country to be sure for these people to participate in our society so it is a great
country but it's time to have a discussion about the immigration we don't want our country to be
like other countries in europe where they have a huge difficulty to integrate their immigrants and
i'm a proud canadians and that's why i love this country and i'm the only leader on this stage who
wants to have a discussion about the level of immigration completely reasonable there's nothing
in that statement that was inflammatory simply having a concern about about integration does
not make you a racist or a white supremacist wanting a cap on immigration so that you may
preserve the unique culture of the host country is not unreasonable and he's right when he says
that nobody up there wants to actually have a discussion about this issue the conservatives
and the liberals are fine with open borders because that gives big business an underclass
from which to draw cheap labor the greens and the ndp are fine with open borders for for ideological
reasons maxime bernier is the only person who's saying slow immigration i mean trudeau wants
350 000 immigrants to canada a year that's wild and i've got an upcoming video on trudeau that
i'll put out probably at the end of the week or something where um where i discuss some of the
stuff in more in more detail but trudeau has also said that canada is a nation with no identity
which is complete bullshit it's complete bs and and there's not much in the world that actually
offends me but that's pretty offensive justin the reason that i side with maxime bernier on this
issue is because he seems to be the only actual political leader who wants to see the the
preservation of canadian values and canadian culture i mean mr bernie after hearing what was
just said you could have just said hey man i messed up because those are pretty horrible
tweets that you made and those aren't horrible dude jagmeet those aren't horrible tweets those
are completely reasonable jagmeet you're a sikh your religion was founded as a reaction
to muslims attacking your people and you're going to sit here and talk about how multiculturalism
is good you can say that because you're a sikh because the sikh community has integrated into
the commonwealth very nicely and you actually respect human rights but the islamists the people
who would impose sharia on you and i jagmeet they don't respect those values and you can't simply
say that all people are the same because that's just they're just not and it's not a race thing
man it's not a racist thing it's not a bigoted thing it's an ideology thing all people are
compatible with canada but not all ideologies are compatible with the canadian values that's what
this boils down to and you are too cowardly to say that really for me i mean should come as no
surprise to you i believe a leader is not someone who tries to divide people or to pit people
against each other a true leader someone tries to find bridges bringing people together that's what
a leader does and a leader works for the people who need help not helping those at the very top
which we've seen with governments in ottawa for far too long they've been working to make life
easier for the multi-billionaires they get massive corporate tax cuts billions of dollars go towards
them we see offshore tax havens continue this is not the way to build the country the way to build
the future is completely unrelated jagmeet this is not the conversation the conversation is
multiculturalism you can't just swing it back around to to your talking points of of basically
communism i find the things that maxine bernier has said to be completely appalling and he knows
that i feel that way about the things he says in the house we used to sit together and generally
when he said anything i'd have to put my head in my hands because it was so horrific i appreciate
you but you know i don't share your policies i don't share your socialist policies because you
know we won't be able to create any wealth with your policies you have the same kind of policies
than socialist countries like venezuela that won't and see it's he's he's right you know he
if you turn if you turn the government's attention toward the redistribution of wealth you don't
generate any new wealth you might be able to equalize the the amount of wealth that exists
the amount of value that currently exists in the nation but no one's going to be inclined to create
new value and yes value is not a zero-sum game people can create it through their own hard work
that's why people on the far left can never answer the question what do you do when you
run out of other people's money because those people now that they've had they've had all
their all their money taken from them they're not going to want to keep working are they going to
keep running their business and just to have the government steal it from them no they're going to
leave and i think more importantly the the things that maxine bernia has said uh they're not really
that appalling they're they're quite normal extreme multiculturalism has failed pretty much
everywhere i don't know why this is such poison to say but you have to have integration they're
acting like he's he's this pariah for even suggesting the fact that people move to canada
to become canadians what the hell man immigration is not that much a matter of number it's a matter
of resources we invest in it in order to have those persons welcome as well in canada as they
are in quebec with our desire for them to share our language to share some of our values and if
we do have enough resources invested in that this is workable and you do not do it by saying or
sending the message that they are not welcome the block's always been a little bit hard to pin down
on the basic uh on the traditional political spectrum because in some ways they are very very
left and in some ways they're very very right they're very left socially however when it comes
to to quebec sovereignty they're very very right they want their language their culture to be
to be protected and paramount at the same time you'll notice this guy again said quebec and
canada as if they are separate things he has an adversarial relationship with the nation that he
is a part of which is why i consider him to be a joke everybody's will come in this country and
you know 49 of our population believe that we must have fewer immigrants they are not racist
they're not radical so what you are saying because i'm in line with the majority of our
population that i'm supposed to be a radical we have the right we have the right in this
absolutely and we are proud we are proud canadians see there you go half of people
in canada do not want more immigrants and his reply is we're all immigrants you know
technically true the people that were here you know 600 years ago were native people not
not european people i get the argument but we have come to accept that colonization's not a
good thing i mean we can't do anything about it now it would be a great injustice to remove all
white people from north america now but just because we did one horrible thing in the past
does that mean that we should keep letting it happen should we allow colonies of non-integrative
people to come into canada and just fuck the nation up is that what we should do is that
the argument here and no the half of canadians who don't want any more immigration they're not
racist for wanting that he's not a racist for putting forward that idea i think it's important
to recognize we're in a world right now where these discussions this polarization this fear
of the other has become easy currency for politicians who do want to strike up uncertainty
in people's hearts and lift those anxieties and try to get people to vote against things
unfortunately mr bernier on this stage is playing that role of trying to uh to make people more
fearful about the migrations that are happening in the world and the opportunities around
globalization and our ability to continue to redefine every single day what it is to be
canadian listen to this fucking guy just listen just listen migration around the world just seems
to be a a good thing for him and if you're afraid of it well then you're just being fear-mongered by
some kind of racist leader or maybe you're a racist yourself who knows globalization's uh
a great thing it's a goal you know take take the power centers away from local people and put it on
a different continent or in a different country or something somewhere far enough that that regular
people just can't do anything about it that's a great thing isn't it trudeau and if you object
to any of this you're just you're just fearful ignorant small-minded it's such bs you must
celebrate who we are and i'm proud canadian like you and you know we build this country together
and we want this country to be like that in 25 years we love this country and it's not because
i want to have a discussion about immigration publicly what mr shear thinks privately so that
line went viral that maxime bernier only exists to to push the more radical elements of conservatism
that andrew shear can't actually speak into the public limelight um i don't think that's the case
i don't think that he's you know uh paid opposition or anything like that i think maxime bernie is a
patriot who wants to see canada as it currently exists uh continue meanwhile justin shiro talks
about redefining what it is to be canadian you know what it is to be canadian is pretty well
defined all right and i don't agree with some of those definitions but i get it all right there's
there's english and french in my opinion there should be probably ojibwe as as a third language
we have history with the native people here some very bad history with the native people here let's
be honest at the same time there's obviously a lot of good about canada as it currently stands
there's obviously a lot of good things that we do there's a lot of good things that we have that
we've created a lot of good that we've built up here we don't need to redefine canada to to the
point that suddenly people who are completely against our values can be considered canadian
no they can't i'll just be honest here and if this makes me a radical or something so be it if
you have a a muslim immigrant who wants to implement sharia law in canada i don't consider
them canadian i don't consider them part of canadian values i don't think we should redefine
ourselves to include them as part of who we are they are antithetical to who we are i will respect
the constitution i will respect provinces and that's very important and i won't interfere in
provincial jurisdiction i want to interfere in health care because it is a provincial jurisdiction
and you know we cannot in ottawa solve the challenges that we're having for health care
and what we can do we can transfer the money to the provinces and what i will do i will let
provinces being able to deal with health care and education that's our constitution will transfer the
gst so provinces will have the money to deal with that and they will be able to answer to your
challenges so there you go devolution of powers do not infringe on on the rights of the provincial
governments to to act in their own domains that seems reasonable to me the new democratic
government we will bring in universal farm maker for all you would use your health card not your
credit card for medication how are you going to pay for it again it never comes up how it's going
to be paid for he he talks about taxing the one percent but he doesn't really know what that
entails or how you have to do it jagmeet operates on pure ideology if you want cooperation with
provinces or quebec you need to respect the jurisdiction and something that you have to
provinces or quebec as if quebec isn't a province fuck you in 10 years of steven harper's government
he chose to stop meeting with premiers and first ministers meetings and we restarted that when we
took office in 2015 we were able to strengthen the cpp for a generation we were able to sign historic
health accords with massive investments in in home care and in mental health we were able to invest
in infrastructure like housing and public transit across the country and we continue to work with
provinces on renegotiating in naphtha that it had everyone playing on one team canada but yes with
certain provinces right now we're fighting on the defining issue of our time because jason kenny and
doug ford and other conservative premiers don't want to do anything on climate change and we need
a government in ottawa that is going to fight them and fight for canadians on climate change and
that's exactly what we're going to do those of you don't know doug ford is he's basically a trump
style candidate that won the ontario premiership and he has become a uh a liberal boogeyman in a
sense now doug ford he's he's not a great politician um frankly he's kind of like he's
kind of a shitbag but he is like trump was a pressure release valve because the previous
premiere had acted so poorly in how they operated that people said you know what we will take the
shitbag over institutional corruption and it was important that doug ford got elected i don't think
he's he's good at his job at all at the very least it was a slap to the left saying that we will take
somebody this bad over you because you're worse you're the worse of the two evils not the better
but more importantly trudeau mentioned uh stephen harper's predecessor he mentions harper a lot
because harper was prime minister for something like 10 years uh something around those lines
and he doesn't actually have much to say about andrew shear he just talks about stephen harper
when he talks about the toys um maybe because i don't know maybe because shear hasn't formed
government yet so you can't really really critique what he would do maybe it's because he wants to
establish some kind of direct link between shear and harper but the truth is harper was only so so
as prime minister he didn't have the best stints as leader of canada but he was better than trudeau
and i think on some level trudeau needs to needs to understand that he's not running against harper
this time the field is different than it was in 2015 you criticized mr harper on his climate
targets but you failed to achieve them you criticized mr harper on the fact that he cut
healthcare funding you also cut them you criticized mr harper and conservatives on giving billions to
billionaires and corporations but you gave 14 billion more the question is this why do you keep
letting down the people that voted for you first thing we did was cut taxes for the middle class
and raise them for the wealthiest one percent and on climate change after 10 years of stephen
harper doing nothing in just four years we've reached three quarters of the way to our 2030
targets which we will meet and surpass but we know that's not enough we're going to continue to do
more like planting 2 billion trees like moving forward on giving money up front so people can
retrofit their homes on making canada net zero by 2050 we know how important it is to move forward
and right now mr shear has promised that the first thing he would do is rip up the only real plan to
fight climate change that canada has ever had these are the things we're going to be moving
forward on because canadians expect us to we lifted 900 000 people out of poverty with our
investments in families with the canada child benefit and things that actually mr shear and
mr singh the ndp voted against another thing that happens throughout the entire debate is that trudeau
he kind of tries to play the middle and he puts on all these different hats so for example when
the people on the left attack him like the ndp and the greens he says no no look at all the
leftist things we've done our way is working and then when people on the right attack him
well he doesn't actually try to play the right at all he just kind of calls them discriminatory
but you know whatever the point is that he's getting hammered from both sides and to some
extent that's kind of accepted because he is the incumbent so everyone's going to try and take pot
shots at him at the same time it really seems like no one is happy with him and there is a lot
of legitimate criticisms to be leveled at him to which he just reverts the talking points as as he
just did in reality statistics canada points out in 2017 the wealthiest actually paid less in tax
and gained more in wealth and when we look at one of the biggest problems that we're faced with as
a country is offshore tax havens now not only did your finance minister use offshore offshore tax
havens but also the president of the treasury boarding she also used offshore tax havens so
how can you tell canadians we don't have the money to fund things like universal pharmacare
when you're talked to cabinet ministers don't pay their fair share see at the very least we can go
to stats can 2017 now if we wanted and look up to see whether or not that figure was true you can in
fact hit up some older news articles and check out the corruption of trudeau's ministers i don't i
don't like jagmeet but at the very least he talks about tangible things rather than talking points
and yeah i have a a basically a trouble with trudeau 2 video coming before the election
describing a lot of his problems and oh boy does he have some problems right now mr trudeau has
not changed the climate targets from those of mr harper it needs to be said very clearly and
i'm so disappointed because i believe the liberals in 2015 that they would go with science-based
evidence-based policies but the target is saying he will hit by 2030 is a target for losing the
fight against climate change because it ignores the science it ignores the ipcc advice on this
stage tonight the green party is the only party with a plan mission possible actually
here's the thing about the environment insofar as canada is concerned canada produces 1.6 percent
of the world's um the world's emissions isn't china like 20 isn't the states like 20 isn't
india like 17 or something i don't have the numbers offhand but talking like if canada
doesn't do something the planet will burst into flames or something is is ridiculous when it
comes to climate change we are small players it's the honest truth i don't think canadians like to
hear that but it's the truth none of these people on the stage frankly even maxime burnier want to
admit this but it's the truth now maxime burnier's argument is is that all of these restrictions
that you have to put to to hit climate change will actually destroy the economy you can hear
you can hear him say it right here see he says destroy the economy and that's because that's
because they will so here we are we have leaders who want to wreck canada's economy to try and meet
their quotas in climate change however canada's output is so small that even meeting those quotas
won't have much long-term impact of the plans that are forward here on the stage there's only
one plan that the experts is qualified as both ambitious and doable and that is the plan that
we have begun to put in place mr trudeau's plan is failing it is making everything more expensive
for hard-working canyons and he has granted a massive exemption to the country's largest
emitters our plan takes the climate change fight global recognizing that canada can do more to
fight climate change by exporting our clean technology and helping other countries lower
see there you go helping other countries lower their emissions and export clean technology
boom sounds decent to me i don't know why this guy's getting maligned for for this but it sounds
good to me your campaign is about courage but you have not shown the courage to fight kibex
discriminatory law it bars individuals who like yourself wear religious symbols from some
provincial employment if you were prime minister would you stand back and allow another province
to discriminate against its citizens aren't you and frankly the other leaders on the stage putting
your own party's interests in quebec ahead of your principles and equality rights of all citizens you
have a minute to answer sure uh it's probably pretty obvious to folks that i am obviously
against bill 21 it is something that hurts me bill 21 by the way it it uh it basically means that you
can't wear religious um religious iconography if you're working for the government in quebec so no
crucifixes no turbans no hijabs or i guess anything else that you would wear i guess like yarmulkes
or anything it they basically want to enforce a secular state i don't like the idea of that
because you know um individuality human rights restricting that stuff might be the lesser of two
evils if if integration if a lack of integration is getting that bad i think about all the times i
grew up being told that i couldn't do things because the way i looked i think about all the
people in canada that grow up being told they can't achieve more because of their identity or
who they are i think about who says that i have not met a single canadian outside of the oldest
hillbillies who say shit like that anymore i think that attitude's gone i think even among like more
conservative people that attitude's gone people in quebec right now that are being told just because
they wear hijab that they can't be a teacher or if they wear yarmulke they can't be a judge and
that's hurtful it's wrong and it probably comes as no surprise that i'm opposed to laws that divide
people what i do every single day when i go to quebec is i say hey i'm here i'm someone that believes
in fighting climate the flight fighting the climate crisis i'm something that believes in
firmly and unequivocally the rights of women the right of women to choose and to build more access
to abortion services i believe firmly in making sure we tackle the powerful corporations that are
that are influencing government and that are not allowing other none of this is related it's
talking points i believe it's very important for for people to understand that well we will not
intervene in this court case as a conservative government we do recognize and the conservative
party always stands for freedom and equality and individual liberty and we will make sure that this
does we will not pursue this type of bill i appreciate that i want to touch on one of the
themes of this discussion here's what's interesting um he said that his government will not interfere
in the province's right to pass this bill but he would not introduce it federally
i think that's important you can disagree with something and still not take legal action against
it and that is in fact part of the devolution of powers um it's not simply using the government as
a hammer to bludgeon everyone and everything in your path and i think the right both the tories
and and the people's party understand this a bit more than the left does we all have done through
this rather strange period of an election campaign confronting issues of of of privilege and anyone
with white skin has privilege but when we look at bill 21 in quebec oh god with 70 of the population
of quebec supporting the bill 21 and 70 of the members of parliament in quebec supporting bill
21 it's not only a polarization issue in quebec see this is where this guy's um quebec not canada
attitude kind of serves him even though i still think it's it's kind of stupid in this context
but he says hey where i'm from it's not a polarizing issue 70 of people in quebec want
this bill so even though the block does sometimes promote socialist policies they're also very much
for the devolution of powers it's like i said they're hard to pin down on the spectrum but i
do know that being like a quebec only party in a canadian national election is just ridiculous on
the face of it it's kind of like the um the the scottish national party who who run in the uk's
elections like they're never going to form a government because they're only interested in
scotland interesting you have spoken very eloquently about discrimination and fought
against it all your life um and that's why it's so surprising to have heard you say like every
other leader on the stage the federal government under you would not intervene in the question of
bill 21 in quebec it's a question where yes it's awkward politically because as mr blanchette says
it is very popular but i'm the only one on the stage who has said yes a federal government might
have to intervene on this because the federal government needs to protect minority rights needs
to protect language rights needs to protect women's rights and needs to do that right across the
federal government needs to be a hammer it's like i said he doesn't understand that you can't simply
use the powers of the government to bludgeon your way into everything you didn't say that you would
possibly intervene you didn't even leave the door open and that's not let's be honest for a second
here every single day of my life is fighting a bill like bill 21 so every single day of my life
if you form government every single day of my life is challenging people who think that you
can't do things because the way you look every man you you are one of the most privileged people
in canada you're on a national stage with the leaders of other parties you are the leader of
a prominent party yourself and you're talking about every single day is is is fighting this kind
of oppression like are you kidding me you know i i get it brown skin turban beard some people are
going to look at you funny some people might might might throw a slur at you it shouldn't
happen it's disgusting i understand to act like that you are not the height of privilege despite
those things is quite frankly ridiculous about the bill 21 we must respect the constitution and
we won't interfere at the federal level that's the decision from the from the provincial government
and that's what we must do but also mr thing you said that you didn't want boom respect the
constitution don't interfere with the provinces at the federal level great i mean again i don't
really agree with with bill 21 either but that's the right answer for a federal leader that is the
right answer so you're for diversity but what about diversity of opinions i have the right
to have another opinion about immigration and i don't know why you're not you you're a leader
and you must be try to have everybody on your side but are you believing let me answer that
question are you going to be free speech only when people are saying things that you want to
here you're asking the part let me answer it after a couple minutes of this debate tonight i think
people can clearly see why i didn't think you should deserve a platform the comments that
you're making the type of things you say there's one thing to say that you disagree with somebody
that's fine but when you incite hatred no i don't it's not you cannot say that i just want to ask
about her mental stability it shows a lack of judgment you don't deserve a platform and i'm
happy to challenge you on that because your your ideas are hurtful to canada i will always work to
build unity and bring people together holy shit okay so because uh because maxime bernia talks
about living immigration because he talks about the negative effects of extreme multiculturalism
because he talks about the problems of non-integrative immigrants into canada
he's he's hurtful he hurts canada are you are you crazy there was there was a great debate on
whether or not to even invite maxime bernier and jagmeet's position is that he shouldn't have been
there there's no there's no reason to hold that position i mean let's say his ideas are as bad
as you think they are jagmeet surely you would be able to absolutely destroy them in a debate
you haven't this is a debate you can do it but you haven't you've just said that he's hurtful
you don't stop extremism by isolating it when you isolate it it goes into an echo chamber and
festers you stop it by debating it and showing other people who are watching the debate how
right you are and how wrong they are you're not willing to do this with maxime bernier because
you know that he would wipe the floor with you if you actually got down to comparing ideologies
and the effects of immigration you don't want to have that discussion which is why you didn't
want him at the debate in my opinion jagmeet you're a coward what is very dangerous is when
you have a prime minister like justin trudeau who uses legitimate issues like racism and hateful
hateful language to demonize anyone who disagrees with him calling people uncanadian for disagreeing
with his failure on the border thank you very much i'm sorry i mean he was cut off but he's
also right there are legitimate refugees from middle eastern nations and elsewhere who who
come to canada because they want to be canadian and inviting in the sharia types is only going to
make life harder for them not not easier they came here to escape the barbarism of their home country
we don't want to import that same barbarism thanks page and hey to ubc thank you i raise
my hands to musqueam swamish and slave with his territory see see it's all about who used to live
there we need fair voting we need to get rid of first past the post because it creates each
political party as rival warring camps even when the elections are over oh first past the post you
know uh justin trudeau ran on on getting rid of that and then he later turned around and said
that he wasn't going to do it remember that i did a video on it remember that it's really important
to recognize that yes we're in a time of polarization and differences that get highlighted
by the kind of debate going on at this stage and in this campaign about how we're moving forward
the reality is canadians agree on most things we want to raise our kids in that world that
is getting better for them we want to be able to pay for their future their futures we want
to be able to retire in in comfort we want to create opportunities for our neighbors as well
this is something that binds canadians together right around the country and the fact that there
is a politics of fear and division that is continuing to dominate here uh underlies uh
what we're actually doing thank you very much it's it's not politics of fear and division
because those things that you mentioned justin that all canadians want and i agree i think most
canadians want those things um you can't do that with open borders the welfare state cannot support
hundreds of thousands of immigrants flooding in and taking out from a system they didn't pay into
it's just it's just the it's just the math of it we are a successful country but we are not
successful enough that we can support the entire world's poor and i'm not a racist for saying that
it's it's just the numbers it's the truth speaking about immigration it is not polarization
actually canada receive more more immigrants per capita than any other western countries three
times higher than the u.s so we must have a discussion about that it is the equivalent of
one nova scotia every three years like the population of nova scotia every three years
here in canada so you know they are for mass immigration and for a sustainable immigration
and that's why we must have fewer immigrants a maximum of 150 000 a year with more economic
immigrants for our country seems completely reasonable nothing about that was racist he
didn't mention a single race or a single location from where the immigrants are coming from he
didn't even mention a single ideology although in my opinion the the the biggest problem is competing
ideologies incompatible ideologies flooding into canada he just talked about the economic realities
of the numbers and it was a completely reasonable thing to say mr trudeau you broke ethics laws twice
you interfered in an ongoing criminal court proceeding you shut down parliamentary
investigations into your corruption and you fire the only two people in your caucus who
are speaking out against what you're trying to do just for telling the truth tell me when did
you decide that the rules don't apply to you oh this will be something that i bring up in that
video by the way that upcoming video uh trudeau's corruption the snc scandal oh god i i can't go into
it now guys but you will see and i think this might be the thing that at the very least make
ensures that trudeau does not get a majority government this time around mr shear the role
of a prime minister is to stand up for canadian's jobs to stand up for the public interest and that's
what i've done and that's what i will continue to do every single day the way i have worked for
canadians is around investing in them unlike the vision that you're putting forward of giving tax
breaks that help people who are making 400 000 k a year 400 000 a year more than someone making
40 000 a year you're offering a 50 000 tax break which is more money than most canadians earn to
the wealthiest canadians with your plan of course we don't entirely know your plan because you
haven't released your costed platform yet which i think is a disrespect to every Canadian watching
you'll notice that he didn't say a single thing about the corruption or the the court case
currently going on didn't say a single thing pure dodge went completely back to talking points
you looked canadians in the eye and you said that the allegations in the global mail were false you
said jody wilson rayburn never came to you you said you never put pressure on her we now know
that those were all lies you have failed to tell the truth mr shear the responsibility of any prime
minister is to stand up for jobs and what you're saying is you wouldn't have done it the ceo of
you never threatened jobs or headquarters you are making that up again see complete dodge he talks
about specific he talks about specific people in specific publications specific articles talking
about what justin trudeau did the corruption didn't say a single thing about it justin trudeau
will never answer questions about about the snc scandal don't worry i'll talk about it someday
we're gonna save families money by investing in pharmacare for all which is gonna save families
over 500 a month we're gonna invest in child care which is gonna save families thousands of
dollars a month and we're gonna make sure that those families that earn less than 70 000 get
denticare that's gonna save families at least 1240 a month our taxpayers where will you where
will you find the money where will you find the money this is a conservative spin where we're
gonna find the money is this we're gonna ask the wealthiest canadians the wealthiest canadians
those who have wealth of over 20 million dollars those who have fortunes of over 20 million dollars
we're gonna ask them to pay a little more yes how do you prevent them from leaving the country
what if they say hey you know what i'm just going to take my 20 million dollars and go
and if that means that i i shut down a business in canada and bring it to the states or bring
it elsewhere then i'll do that what do you do then what do you do when all the high earners leave
it's the united nations declaration the right for indigenous peoples needs to come into force of law
in this country i know you oppose it because the debate we had at mcclean's but the reality of it
is section 35 of the constitution already requires consultation and it does not boil down to
the thing about the uh the un declaration of the rights of indigenous persons
is that it is it is largely considered unworkable in law the justice minister in 2016 said that
adopting the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples is unworkable
respectfully it is a political distraction to undertaking the hard work required to actually
implement it this un declaration really seems to be something that other uh other leaders
beat the current government with while knowing that it's not something that could actually work
in canadian law so what does free prior and informed consent mean for every single
indigenous community what about the dozens and dozens of indigenous communities who want these
projects why are you prepared to set aside the decision of the human rights tribunal to fight
it in court just as mr trudeau is when they actually found as a matter of fact that our
government committed acts that were reckless and willful in the violation of the rights of
indigenous children there are dozens of well let's be honest um i don't know exactly what she's
referring to here i'll have to look into it later but in general the human rights tribunal in canada
is a joke body they're the tribunal that prevented a guy from tweeting for three years because he
shit posted too hard i don't consider them legitimate i don't think they have any place in canada
you don't fear the idea of expropriating territories going into provinces and saying
the constitution yours not mine the constitution it is your constitution because quebec's part of
canada this this guy's ridiculous man this section is about about land treaties with
canada's first nations not quebec rights that's all that's what he turns it to is just the rights
of of people in quebec says that i have the right to go through provinces through quebec without
their approval and i remind you that's just the beccers and the prime minister said clearly
quebec isn't a prime minister because you're not a country perry belvard the grand chief of the uh
the head of the assembly of first nations has said that no government has done more for indigenous
peoples than this government and he's one of your constituents mr shear that's right he comes from
my little blackberry i have nothing to learn from mr trudeau who fired the first indigenous attorney
general for doing her job she said that she would do politics differently and you fired her when
she did see that's actually uh somewhat unrelated it's still a good point because trudeau did fire
somebody who was looking into into his corruption um at the same time the fact that she's indigenous
doesn't matter and this is just the tories trying to play the left's game of identity politics but
at the same time if that is the game i guess you have to play it nowadays you said that you're
ready for building pipelines all across this country by the private sector but at the same
time you said you know quebecers are ready to buy oil and gas from canada i agree with that i agree
that quebecers know that it's safer to transport oil and gas by pipelines than by trains but at the
same time the quebec government said that there's no social acceptability for a pipeline in quebec
what will be your position on that do you think that you'll be able to use the constitution
because after consultation if we don't have any agreement we must be able to use a constitution
section 9210 to be able to build a pipeline when you do that the federal government will have the
full authority the full jurisdiction to approve pipeline but what you're saying you're for
pipelines but you don't have the courage to use a constitution to be sure that we'll have pipelines
in this country for the unity of our country and the prosperity of our country that's just not the
case at all i've always said that the federal government must stand up for federal jurisdiction
we respect provincial jurisdiction and when you've got the best idea i am convinced that i can get
support for this project because quebecers know that it's better to take energy from western
canada than the tanker after tanker of foreign oil coming up to st lawrence or oil and gas coming
from donald trump's economy i know quebecers will support this project because it will also allow
them to share their hydro electrical power with other provinces as well see despite that little
jab at donald trump in the end when you get the two guys on the right actually talking about
policy it seems like there's a real discussion going on and it's not just mudslinging there was
a little bit of mudslinging you know you know uh maxime bernier telling andrew shear that he
he was too cowardly to use the constitution to ensure a pipeline gets built but in general
they're talking about policy and they're talking about specifics of policy and it's kind of
refreshing because it's not just ideology it's not just talking points they're actually talking about
a specific project that has been held up by the liberal government and how they would solve the
situation that's kind of refreshing to be honest even though i don't really agree with either their
solutions at least we're talking about something specific and not just ideals you know i went to
again just recently we've got a community impacted by mercury poisoning an indigenous activist went
to a private fundraiser where mr chuteau mocked that indigenous activist saying thank you for
your donation living with mercury poisoning because he's a fraud what kind of prime minister
does that i wish i had an answer but one that doesn't deserve to be re-elected
oh boy future video it's not a short-term project it is on us as settler canation settler canadians
to bring justice settler canadians that is how the greens at least i'm pretty sure most of the
radical left in canada but the greens at least view white people in canada not as canadians
as settler canadians they're they have to have this distinction where we're the settler canadians
and then the the aboriginals are i guess the the native canadians considering how much
fluff has been given about the politics of of divisiveness in this debate it is ridiculous
to use term like settler canadian i do not view myself as a settler canadian nor will i ever view
myself as a settler canadian i don't accept that label i don't even accept you know uh italian
canadian or or irish canadian or or newfoundlander i'm a canadian and that's that no other leader
is ready to build a new relationship with our first nation they all support the status quo
but the system is broken we still have extreme poverty on reserve we need a bold reform and we
are the only party that will try to implement property rights on reserve and also establish
a new relationship based on self-reliance for these communities we need to build a new system
working with them but that's not what they want because we cannot fix the system right now if we
don't do a bold reform and we are ready for that this is what's interesting about this um those of
you who don't know how the first nations reserve system works in in canada is that all of the the
reserve property is communally owned which means that it's an it's basically owned by by the chiefs
of uh of that nation and and they're just funded by the government and so when a first nations
person lives in a house on a reserve they don't actually own the house they can't they can't sell
the house and you know on service it sounds good free housing great at the same time um
it also means that you don't have any kind of capital to leave you know if you wanted to sell
your house and move off reserve you can't do that because you don't own the house and so it ends up
being the case that like um there's a lot of alcoholism and drug problems on canada's reserves
they are in fact under a lot of uh boil water advisories um the the conditions on them are
appalling and at the same time the people who live there they seem to largely have no desire
to actually help themselves but not only no desire but also no ability to help themselves because
they don't own any property they can't really you know get off the reserve at least some of them do
some of them have you know because there are also um there are also subsidies that come through
the the the the reserve system to allow people to go to school and they pay for part of their
tuition so they can in fact leave the reserve but man when they leave the reserve they don't go back
they go to like a canadian city and they work a regular job and they own a house themselves
people who are stuck on the reserve they're they're stuck there and they can't leave
and they don't really have anything a lot of stuff is just provided to them so it's become
this this negative feedback loop where the government is willing to provide for them based
on various uh treaty rights and based on the fact that um unlike in the united states canada's first
nations were never really conquered in a sense so in the past there was this sense of allowing the
first nations to live as they like in this reserve system however you know to be to be quite frank
and open about it european technology was always significantly more advanced than than first
nations technology and so when canada modernized and became you know a regional power and and
became a world economic power in a sense and you know became one of one of the g8 and a first world
nation and the whole bit um the first nations still living traditional lives were like well
what the hell like aren't we part aren't we in canada too like how come we how come we're
subsisting off the land as canada transforms itself into into this great nation and so it
like there's it's become this limbo where the reserve system is broken it's not working the
first nations people living within the system are completely destitute and addicted to a number of
things but at the same time they're also very dependent on those handouts and it kind of goes
both ways in a sense where where they're both victims of of the environment and of the government
but also victims of themselves and each other it's it is it is appalling that this kind of thing
happens in canada maxime bernie's solution here and he seems to be the only one who even talks
about it is to basically remove the reserve system and privatize the the property within so that
people actually own property now on the one hand that would be what helps them like fundamentally
it would be at this on the other hand um it would completely destroy not only the reserve system but
large parts of of uh of native culture and they don't want that and i understand that they don't
want that but it's like you know you you can live a modern lifestyle or you you can't and if you
can't you can't complain that you're not living a modern lifestyle this halfway half-assed solution
of the reserve system uh is ruining the native population in canada it's terrible but but but
the solutions are to to go backwards and live how they used to live before europeans uh showed up
which is no good frankly like do you really want to do that if you're native and listen to this
do you really want to do that do you really want to live without all modern conveniences
and you want to live how your ancestors lived do you think you would survive a canadian winter
like that maybe you would maybe some of you would you know but let's be honest here do you want to
go without internet do you want do you want to go without all modern conveniences of life do you
want to go without individual um human rights and all of the philosophical and political advances
that european contact brought i know it brought a lot of terrible things but it also brought a lot
of good things or do you want to join modern canada which by necessity means that you you
you have to have private property and not have and not depend on government handouts there is no good
answer to that even asking the question will get people angry at me and will make people offended
and will probably get me labeled as a bigot and i commend maxime burnier you know another reason
for them to call him a racist but he's actually asking a proper question and putting forward an
imperfect solution but it's better than anything that anybody else wants to do the science is clear
your target is a commitment to failure that's why it's so doable and achievable because it doesn't
do what the ipcc says we must do we must go off fossil fuels as quickly as possible and you bought
a pipeline you can't be a climate leader and spend 10 to 13 billion dollars more on a project that by
itself blows through our carbon budget consider elizabeth may's uh rhetoric the green party rhetoric
trudeau's plan is doable because it won't do anything is the implication that what we need
to do to to solve the the the climate crisis if it is as you describe is the implication that
what needs to be done is not doable because if that's the case then we're fucked anyway so what
does it matter people must know that that mr shear and mr trudeau you're the same on climate change
you want to impose a carbon tax on canadians and you want to impose more costly regulation
i think that's the most offensive thing you said all night max we're the same on climate change
you want to impose also a big tax so you're the same on climate change and you won't be able to
achieve your target he hasn't said anything offensive that's the most offensive thing you've
said all night max is it i mean maybe it is but he hasn't really said much in a way that's been
offensive i know that these guys are desperate to to paint maxime burnier as as this white supremacist
or something but it's getting pretty desperate you know the way to bring more public service
to bring more help to canadians child care banning tuition investing in post-secondary education
pharma care in bet banning tuition um i what happens to colleges then i mean part of the value
of of of a college diploma or a university degree is that not everyone has them it sounds kind of
harsh i know but it is the truth it is the truth of the matter you can't just ban tuition look at
your platform elizabeth and you know you will spend 60 billion dollars spending won't create any wealth
you cannot spend your way to prosperity we need to have more private sector investment and at the end
you know you know that our national credit card is full did you see her laugh there hold on i'm
going to go back look at her laugh when he says here hold on billion dollars spending won't create
any wealth you cannot spend your way to prosperity we need to have more private sector investment
and at the end you know you know that see she she laughs at the idea that you can't spend your way
to wealth and i mean that is that is essentially uh the truth i mean yeah like in terms of
businesses you have to spend money to make money you have to invest and and you know buy buy
supplies and you know shit like that i understand that but she's laughing at the idea that
governments can't spend their way to having a prosperous nation and no they can't because
governments aren't in the business of doing business and i don't think she understands
this because frankly she's a she's a communist and and that smile there is from somebody who
who doesn't understand economics i guess so our national credit card is full we still have
deficit and mr tudo just had 70 billion dollars on our debt and you'll have another 60 billion
dollars on our debt it is not responsible our children will have to pay for that but you have
you have your famous private sector having got massive tax cuts when you were in mr harper's
cabinet based on being told these were the job creators and it would be great when they got tax
cuts they have not invested in the economy they're sitting on piles of cash mark carney calls it the
money we need to get that money and do public sector infrastructure so they're just scrooge
mcducking it is that what it is they have they have big vaults of money that they swim around in
i don't think that's what um that's what what the hardcore capitalists do now because it was
she's talking about steven harper's government what the hardcore capitalists did in steven
harper's government was take that money and then move it out of canada because they were
they were multinationals they were globalists and that's something that maxime bernier
does not like he talks about wanting to fight that in his platform so so this really is the
problem with somebody who who is a socialist or is a communist is that they don't see an
ideological difference between somebody who is a capitalist globalist and somebody who is a
capitalist nationalist they just see capitalist and stop thinking right there our universal tax
cut will mean 850 in the pocket of a hard-working average income canadian we're going to bring back
the children's fitness tax credit to make raising children more affordable we're going to bring back
the green public transit tax credit to make taking the bus or the train more affordable as well we're
going to help fight climate change by bringing in the green home renovation tax credit which will
put money in the pockets of canadians and help lower emissions and we're going to pay for that
the way we're going to pay for those is by cutting corporate welfare and reducing canada's foreign
aid budget by 25 so we're going to stop sending money to the relatively well-off countries we're
going to bring that money back home so that canadians can get ahead mr share that may be
the worst idea in your whole non-platform is the cutting of foreign aid i wear this little pin this
is sustainable development goals the united nations to which this country is committed
ending poverty within the next decade within canada and globally is actually possible but not
if we ever had the misfortune of having your i believe you should take that money and bring it
back home greedy and selfish policies hold on a minute hold on a minute so shears shear's plan
is to not just tax the one percent you know to be fair i don't i don't believe that uh shear will
ever tax the one percent even though he says he it's part of his platform i just don't think he
will but he says he's gonna he's gonna start cutting canadian foreign aid why not if if
canada's first nations are living under boil water advisories if we have homeless people here
if we're cutting social programs and we're cutting education why are we still sending
money overseas yeah sure those countries are are also not well off and they probably deserve some
help but i mean one a lot of them are corrupt and the money doesn't go to actually helping the
people and two we have our own people to deal with first it's it's it's the same ideology as
the open borders people we can't take care of everyone and our priority is canadians if federal
government was to respect jurisdiction of provinces it would take less time it would cost less money
and provinces and quebec could do what they have to do about health care bring the money that is
owed to quebec and provinces this is what has to be done lodging the money the money should be
see it's it's always quebec and provinces as if they are two separate entities quebec is a
province we recognize that we need to help people more directly that's why the first thing we did
was lower taxes for the middle class and raise them on the wealthiest one percent we're moving
again forward with a tax break for low and middle income canadians and nothing for the wealthiest
unlike mr shear's universal tax credit we're also moving forward by increasing the canada child
benefit which has lifted hundreds of thousands of families out of poverty by fifteen percent for
kids under one we're increasing the old age security for seniors over 75 we're making sure
that students have an easier time paying back their student debts by not having to pay back
until they're making thirty five thousand dollars a year we're investing in canadians mr trudeau
thank you mr bernier your turn man look at how quickly he just rattles those off that is pure
rehearsed talking points and the honest truth is there's there's not much substance in those
those numbers are are kind of iffy at best the few numbers that he actually did provide
canadian under my watch that was the only uh good thing trudeau said the entire the entire debate
mr shear you said in english a few months ago that you were strongly against the very idea of
bill 21 about laicity of the state in quebec then you said in french in quebec that you would do
nothing against that law but your very close collaborator mr allen reyes said the day before
yesterday that you would protect the bill 21 he said that in french i must admit you would you
were the only one that would protect the bill can you get to the question please how will you do that
it's very uh this the answer to this question is very simple mr blanchette and you know that i've
always been very clear on this issue we will not intervene in the court case that is currently
before the courts uh the elected officials of quebec have taken this decision and now it is
before the courts and the courts and the courts will protect protect the law that is exactly what
we said in english and in french it's very important that a federal government respects
and protects individual liberties and individual human rights we will not pursue this court of
action at a federal level but mr shear has the floor in the law it's quite simple i just
this happens a few times in this debate uh going forward where people just keep re-asking sheer
a question and he says i just answered it like what are you talking about and in this case he did
he said that he personally disagrees with bill 21 which is something we talked about much earlier
in the debate but he will uh he will not uh use the use the federal powers to block it which i
think is is a reasonable is a reasonable position to hold but rather than listen to that answer or
respond to it um his opponent just asks the question again this is something that the federal
level we will not pursue the conservative party has always stood for individual liberty for
fundamental human rights it was a conservative prime minister that brought forward the bill
of rights the last prime minister from saskatchewan except you won't defend a woman's right to choose
you you've dismissed lgbt lgbt protections you haven't apologized for your words
millions millions millions years ago will you okay okay so as i said they're they're gonna do it to
share again where first of all i don't i don't justin i don't think it's your place to bring up
things that happened years ago i i really don't think it's your place to bring up things that
happened years ago and ask for somebody to apologize for them will you recognize and
apologize for that millions of canadians have a different position on this issue and like millions
of canadians i am personally pro-life it is okay in this country to have a difference of opinion
canadians need to know one at a time please one at a time the laws and access on this issue have
not changed for 30 years under liberal prime ministers under conservative prime minister
now you probably couldn't hear that because they were just uh shouting over top of each other
but shear said he's personally pro-life and despite that the laws on abortion in canada
have not changed for 30 years um it's not it's not a court case like it is in the states with
roe v wade and he does not plan to disrupt the status quo despite his personal position
of being pro-life he does not want things to change as they are in canada and you know what
that doesn't matter because they just keep asking him over and over and over and over and over
will you respect a woman's right to choose will you respect a woman's right to choose
and he he's answered he just answered it but they don't want to listen to him see check it out
you have been not let's allow mr you're signing the nomination papers
nobody can nobody can hear what you're saying anymore and of course at this point it devolves
into a shit show and it's a whole bunch of virtue signaling and playing identity politics because
even though shear's not the greatest candidate he has some things going for him and at the same
time he also does resort to identity politics when because he knows that that's the game that's
currently being played right now into larger political discussion at the same time uh check
out maxime burnier's face here he is just so fed up with this nonsense like check it out we'll be
signing the nomination this is this is a man who knows this is an absurd discussion and has
checked out of the stupidity it's our next theme we've already talked about it a little bit but
now we will for real the environment and energy and we will talk about it a little bit half of
the entire thing so far has been about the environment and energy and i believe we live
in an age of climate crisis and this is the last election we have before a point of no return is
reached furthermore holy shit dude i i'm pretty sure that it's not quite that dire all right
i'm not saying it doesn't exist i just don't think that we're we are not headed for the barbecue you
know in the next few years or anything as mr blanchett said quebec and other provinces like
bc have moved forward with putting a price on pollution we've ensured that that price is put
in right across the country because it is a mechanism that will both lower emissions and
ensure that canadians can afford this transition the choice tonight is very clear between two
parties that have very different views see he didn't really answer the question before moving on
the the question was most businesses view the the carbon tax as just a price they have to pay
to enter into a marketplace and trudeau says yeah we've made the carbon tax um nationwide
yeah but that's not an answer to the question justin i don't know if you've noticed that's
how he handles a lot of things he spends maybe 15 seconds sidestepping a question and then the
rest of his time talking about talking points first of all we want to do things that are
possible we want to do things that are possible to protect our health our hair our environment
our water all the other leaders claim to save the world and to save the climate they cannot
canada represent only to 1.6 percent of the green gas emission there you go an actual figure canada
represents 1.6 of greenhouse gas emissions how do we stop climate change as canadians well it
seems like it might be a bit out of our control and also if we're only representing 1.6 while
places like the united states china and india represent in the double digits maybe we're
actually pulling our weight already maybe we're actually doing our share and they claim also to
be able to achieve the paris accord target they cannot they have to impose a carbon tax of 300
to do that and they won't do it they don't do it they're hypocrites we won't
have attacks on carbon there you go just straight up you're hypocrites refreshing to hear in a
debate i mean he might even be wrong about some things but at least he's willing to tell the truth
as he sees it and and not resort to talking points you know i'll i will take that respect for the
viewer now while mr trudeau has said a lot of nice things let's look at what he's done he said that
he's for the environment but then he continues to exempt the biggest polluters from his price on
pollution he says he wants to fight the climate crisis what does he do he continues to subsidize
oil and gas massively he says he's a climate leader what does he do he buys a pipeline
there's a big gap between what mr trudeau says and what he does yep have to agree with jagmeet again
um i don't like him as a candidate he seems like a good guy i don't like him as a candidate
but uh when he talks about the hypocrisy of trudeau he has his facts down you unlike everyone
else on this stage clearly understand that we're up against a real climate emergency the
intergovernmental panel on climate change has given us hard timelines challenging targets if
we've been given those hard timelines and challenging targets before may um i remember
being in the 90s and listening to the fact that by the year 2000 we'll be underwater
and society will have been destroyed we're still here when justin trudeau took office there were
three major pipeline projects ready to go under his watch all of them have failed he had to take
4.5 billion dollars of canadian tax money to put the trans mountain pipeline on life support and
he did that by sending 4.5 billion dollars of taxpayers money to another country to the
united states to be invested in the oil and gas sector there instead of here in canada his answer
for his rationale for having two campaign planes was that he bought carbon offsets which is just
a thing that privileged people can do that's right trudeau has two campaign planes flying around i
mean i don't know why he can just if he needs to go places as prime minister i understand you have
a plane why do you need two you can't fit can't fit everything on one plane we must double our
current target we must listen to science we must not build the trans mountain pipeline it's not
the last because it gets cancelled if we're serious you can't negotiate with physics you
can't as prime minister you can't just leave a leader of the liberal party there's a carbon
budget it doesn't budge and that's why it's so heartbreaking for me to look at you today and
know you could have done so much more the last four years please god you don't get a majority
this time around from the rockies from the rockies to the bay of fundy conservative premiers have
gotten elected on promises to do nothing on climate change and we need a strong federal
government to fight them to make sure that we are moving forward on protecting the future
generations from the impacts of climate change see this this argument here between uh may and trudeau
it sounds it sounds like the uh the establishment leftist arguing with the ideologue and saying
you know please keep supporting me i have the best you've got and the ideologue saying no you're not
pure enough from correct first would you agree with the demand of the prime minister of quebec
mr lugo that quebec review and environmental issues will have precedence over canada's
overview second question do you promise after this judgment in british columbia
do not ever try to have a pipeline cross quebec ever after 10 years of mr harper's failures to
get things built because he did not understand you have to work with indigenous peoples you have to
work with local communities you have to respect environmental science we brought in a process that
does exactly that and we work with the provinces on ensuring that there's not a duplication of
environmental environmental oversight that's what bill c69 is all about we know that the way we move
forward is responsible and will be done and that's the time mr trudeau no answer who's surprised
also you know i've said this a few times now so maybe i'm just maybe just sound like a broken
record but uh the block guy really does talk like quebec is this separate country entering into
negotiations with canada no man no it's never going to happen mr trudeau it's now your chance
to ask a question of any other leader you have one minute to do so sir we cut taxes for small
businesses to nine percent uh we cut taxes for canadians we know that tax breaks for wealthy
do not work to grow the economy 10 years of mr harper's failure has done that yet mr shear's
platform what we've seen of it because most of it is still secret and will remain secret apparently
like doug ford that doesn't work out so well for ontarians um is to reduce taxes for the wealthiest
canadians the multi-millionaires by 50 000 which is more money than most canadians wrap it up
why the 50 000 you have one minute to respond mr shear there was there wasn't really a question
in there what's there yeah justin when when you're given a chance to ask another candidate
a question that's not doesn't mean you just shit on him for 30 seconds you actually ask him a
question so mr trudeau you seem to be oddly obsessed with provincial politics there is a
vacancy for the ontario liberal leadership and if you are so focused on provincial politics go and
run for the leadership of that part of mr trudeau your tax policy has meant that 80 of canadian
families pay higher taxes today than when you first took office that is exactly true that was
a conservative principle that liberals fought against that you fought against your signature
achievement was taking a conservative idea to send support directly to downstairs i voted against
your tax hikes on canadians mr trudeau that's what i was voting is no i did not we are committed one
at a time we are committed to protecting that benefit because it is based on conservative
principle but we are going to go this is supposed to be mr shear's answer we're going to move into
open debate for all canadians with a universal tax cut we're going to bring back the children's
sports and fitness that's it mr shear we've got three minutes on this open debate starting with
me yes that's right sir okay mr shear you did not answer the question on why you are lowering taxes
by 50 000 for multi-millionaires in this country maybe you'll answer it tomorrow in the press
conference but you haven't answered it tonight that is just not true you haven't answered a
question your entire time as prime minister i've sat across you you okay that is true i can
definitely um when it comes to making that new video i will definitely put in the the montage of
trudeau literally ignoring everything if you think this is the first time he's done this ignoring
every single question no man this is this is mo andrew you are calling yourself a conservative
but you don't want to balance the budget in two years you will have 70 billion dollars on our debt
you support the cartel in meal dairy and poultry knowing that the canadian family is paying more
than 400 a year for that andrew are you a real conservative no i think you are a liberals why
are you pretending to be something that you are not you know maxime vernier hasn't done the best
in this debate it's been a lot of fiery rhetoric it's been a lot of shooting from the hip a lot of
truth telling in uh in a platform in a place where there's not much truth telling i mean look at this
look at this happy motherfucker right here he he gets it it's really unfortunate because this
debate has not really touched on the places where maxime vernier is at his strongest which is um
free speech and uh canadian nationalism canadian values let's talk about pretending to be something
that you're not i'm not sure which maxime vernier i'm debating tonight was it the maxime vernier from
the 1990s who was a separatist was it the maxime vernier who was minister responsible for handing
out corporate welfare was it the maxime vernier who defended supply management when it suited him
the fact of the matter is sorry it's my it's my time to respond to that question the fact of the
matter is there's a clear contrast in the selection justin trudeau's endless deficits and tax hikes to
pay for or a conservative plan that will leave more money in your pocket we will lower taxes
for all canadians we'll bring back popular tax credits like the kids sports and fitness tax credit
we'll boost the resp we'll raise the age credit for seniors and we'll bring in a green home
renovation tax credit that all the while cutting corporate welfare and canada's foreign aid budget
to bring that money back home so that canadians can get ahead nine seconds well let's do open
debate off you go you're starting that too thank you very much i'm the maxime vernier who's there
for canadians and i'm the maxime vernier who does not care about having real debates on real issues
that are important for you don't want to have debates to help every canadian and abolishing
that cartel in supply management you don't want to be able to cut foreign aid you don't want to
cut foreign it's precisely not the case we've said that i've said that we will cut canada's
foreign aid budget by 25 to pay for the tax cuts that we can save five billion dollars there and
balancing the budget what this election is all about this election is all about who's
going to fight for you who's going to stand up for you okay see that see that okay so bernier
and shear get into it again and they have a discussion on the minutia of their policies
and it's an interesting discussion and then we got jagmeet's low iq intervention of this is
really about who's going to fight for you it's just a platitude it's just platitudes man
our price on pollution helps canadians more uh than removing it does okay see okay that was
interesting because she says yeah five seconds go that's kind of unfair that was a point that
needed more than five seconds to reply to so it makes sense that trudeau got a bit flustered there
at the end but you could tell he was like searching for the proper talking point and
they kind of mashed together because it it is all talking points with him it feels like
he didn't come here to actually have any kind of substantive discussion on these issues that's it
thank you that brings us to the end of this segment and to the end of this debate we want
to thank all of you of course for taking the time our questioners tonight and all of you for
watching live in person and on your various screens just a reminder as monsieur blanche
hinted at that french language debate is later on this week thursday at 8 p.m eastern on behalf
yep and that's useless uh because frankly uh fuck french maxime burnier's uh frankly massive social
media presence came up a few times in this debate and so i want to show you something along the
lines of what he he posts regularly this election will go down in history as the one where identity
politics went off the rails can we get back to debating policies this is an reply to the
official conservative party's um tweet that justin trudeau's next cabinet has racists misogynists
and conspiracy theorists in it he stands by all the maze and fire a single single one and i think
this can be best exemplified by that one bit where maxime burnier you know looked up at the sky shook
his head and then put his head down you know i i get it identity politics does not help anyone and
pretty much everyone there except maxime burnier um played on identity politics and of course we
would not uh and of course this wouldn't be a debate without a canadian flavored version of
somebody saying something over and over and over and over because saying it multiple times makes
it true i guess allowing maxime burnier on stage platforms white supremacy does it is maxime burnier
a a white supremacist are you sure about that nothing that he said in there sounds like white
supremacy to me he sound completely reasonable well maybe this is the white supremacy here
burnier promises to build border fences if he's elected prime minister he said we cannot be the
welfare state of the planet canada must look at look after its own citizens first and focus on
newcomers who bring economic value to the country he denounced mass immigration and extreme
multiculturalism saying these policies would lead to social conflicts and potentially violence
these ideas nothing to do with freedom his speech said but rather a very dangerous type of social
engineering he identified islamism or political islam as a threat to our values and way of life
and apparently half of respondents in a poll think immigration levels are too high well is
you wrong and is this racist to say i don't think it is i don't think it's white supremacist to to
to to point out that islamists um are basically cancerous to western liberal democracies they're
they're they're incompatible this is a lie based on the idea that all cultures cultures are equal
a lie destructive of our western liberal democratic heritage traditions and values
based on individual rights and freedoms where's the racism where's the falsehood a people's party
government would focus on religious minorities in majority muslim countries and members of
sexual minorities instead of refugees identified by the united nations what's the problem seriously
what's the problem what possible complaint could say the lgbtq uh community have uh against this
proposal if there are gay people fleeing muslim countries because they they will be killed for
being gay and they come to canada and they get a focus what's the problem is this white supremacy
maxine bernie vows to slash immigration impose a values test on newcomers a values test how
terrible but what's wrong with the values test both he personally and his party despises
prejudice in all forms but nonetheless they're going to break the taboo of immigration to canada
by forcing the conversation upon the country yeah see the idea of a values test seems completely
reasonable to me if you do not hold values that are in line with canadian values then why should
you come here maybe this is the white supremacy maybe we've finally found it former neo-nazi and
pagata canada official among the people's party party of canada signatories okay
you actually have an instance of potential white supremacy if a neo-nazi is showing up to maxine
bernie's political party okay there you go we found it oh apparently the party cut its ties
with him last month after his past involvement in the white nationalist movement came to light
while his position within the people's party of canada was unclear at the time the elections
canada forums disclose his role in registering the party okay so as soon as it became apparent
that there was a white supremacist they kicked him out is that not what you would want if if
you're going after the ppc for having white supremacists in it is this not exactly what
you would want to see what's the complaint there's a link here what does this say
man linked to neo-nazi group in the u.s no longer with the people's party of canada
is this not the appropriate response of course you have to know that uh tangible results will
never be enough um you know what would be better than all the white leaders congratulating jagmeet
on dealing with racism in the campaign actually coming up with a plan to deal with racism and
white supremacy and their platforms well it seems like the only person who's done that at least
publicly so far is maxime bernia by kicking a white supremacist out of his party now you don't
want to hear that you probably think he's the literal fucking devil but nonetheless look at
these replies here more like reverse racism those of us unfortunate enough to have been born white
always having to choose our words and apologize for policies and atrocities many generations ago
committed you know fair enough i am not responsible for anything people with my skin color did 100 or
200 years ago oh check out this reply no one likes you you you fucking showed him as this
debate gets going i want to be clear that mclean's harmful irresponsible decision to invite maxime
bernie is the story tonight yeah why was it harmful irresponsible is it because he actually
had a chance to put forward his idea listen if his ideas were actually dangerous um they would be
he would be blown off the stage and he wasn't that's kind of the point here is that you want
to de-platform people that you can't beat in a straight debate fascists don't deserve a place
on on the stage any stage but he's not a fascist seriously canes deserve the freedom to decide
no canes deserve freedom from fascism he's not a fascist fascist is not just people you disagree
with you idiots of course it comes from a joker dickbutt avatar but can't win on the on the debate
stage rig the debates that's how they do this shit man throughout the debates shear and bernie hammered
the theme of canada maxing out its credit card relatively unchallenged well it's because it's
true but debt to gdp is falling which is not really a related statistic uh public spending
can create growth no public spending it's private spending that creates growth public spending
creates a safety net that for people who who are say really hurting can kind of fall into and then
from there build themselves back up to self-sustainability public spending does not create
growth and we have a civilizational duty to fund a green new deal no we don't the green new deal
failed in the states because it wasn't even about the climate it was about pushing socialism here
i'll end our post-election discussion since this has mostly just been uh twitter stupidity
with this this is google trends all right what you'll notice is that during the debate
um the most searched term from people on google in canada was for the people's party of canada
more than the other uh either parties by a fair amount you know the the conservatives were up
there for a bit the the the greens were up there liberals and ndp both at the bottom
and then the people's party massive spikes man i don't even think maxine brand did a particularly
good job but something must have come about in that debate that resonated with people because
people were looking them up people were looking them up and here they are this this is uh during
during the the time of the debate in fact right here everyone's looking them up and then you'll
notice um they're consistently reasonably high between last night when the debate happened and
now you know they're they're in the top three they're contending now this is google search
terms not um not votes not projections but something happened that people said hey
let's look into these guys and all the provinces of canada there's no data on the three territories
of north but during this period of time from the beginning of the debate until now and every
province except saskatchewan all of all the five parties the people's party is the most searched
that's crazy just putting maxime burnier on stage even though he didn't do that well got him some
pretty crazy reach that's that's nuts now of course you don't know what kind of searches
these are these could be people who are negatively predisposed towards the people's party of canada
and they're searching for uh not necessarily reasons revolving around supporting them like
we don't know but at the very least their name has been put out there and i think this is exactly uh
why jagmeet objected and why a lot of people on twitter are saying that he's a racist he's a nazi
he's he's a bigot he's all these things he shouldn't have been platformed because they know
that even though he flubbed the uh even though he flubbed the debate there was something about what
he was saying that was resonating with people and so they would rather him have not had a platform
to say it at all to every single brain-dead idiot who thinks that maxime burnier shouldn't have been
allowed on the stage because of fighting fascists or whatever here's a copy of the canadian charter
of rights and freedoms let's discuss the fundamental freedoms of all canadian citizens
everyone has the following fundamental freedoms freedom of conscience and religion freedom of
thought belief opinion and expression including freedom of the press and other media of
communication freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association every single time that
you label anybody that you disagree with a fascist every single time that you say that people should
not be allowed to partake in public life because you don't like their politics every single time
you either implement state force and suppressing opinions you don't like or whine that the state
is not doing it this is what you're pissing on and if you have to wonder why so many people
oppose you nowadays this is it you can't win debates so instead you try to stop them
all right chums that's about it for me this video was over four hours long this is going to be a
shitty one to edit i'll get it out as soon as i can i finished it at about 4 p.m october 8th
i want to get it out sometime tonight still on october 8th hopefully i will and most importantly
of all i'm going to continue with the canada stuff leading up until the election unless
something major happens i will keep doing these videos on various aspects of canadian society
because there are things unfolding including what's going on with justin trudeau that i think
are worth talking about before the election hits on the 21st that's the plan i will see you guys
next time i love you